---
title: 'seeing the pictures'
date: 2024-05-04
permalink: /posts/2024/05/04-post
tags:
  -out-in-the-world
---

### seeing the pictures
Yesterday, I walked by a two-story building\
on the edge of a London retail district.\
A woman with electric hair waved me\
in from the biting chill. I said I was\
there to say thank you. The portraits on\
the walls almost looked like people I love.\
I decided to ask if they took walk-ins.\
\
I tried orange squash for the first time.\
It did not taste like a squash. I drank\
almost a litre. I wondered if I had become\
a new state of matter. Someone dressed in\
blue gave me a booklet to read. Someone else\
pricked my finger and asked where I had lived\
every year since I was born.\
\
I had to say my name and birthday and address\
every time I did something new. I managed not\
to forget them. Someone felt the crooks of my\
left elbow and right elbow. They decided my\
left side was best. I watched as they slid in\
a silver needle. They told me to squeeze my\
buttocks tight. They watched me do it too.\
\
I was busy texting. When I heard a beep,\
I thought something was wrong. But it just\
meant they had taken all they needed from me.\
They told me to stay lying down and to keep\
squeezing my buttocks. They kept watching too.\
They stuck a bandage and tape to the crook\
of my elbow. I always forget to shave there.\
\
I surprised myself yesterday. I make plans\
for everything. Seeing the pictures was\
not my plan. I was nervous sometimes, but I\
kept talking and squeezing my buttocks.\
The next time I give a presentation, I\
will try that again.\
\
London has given me new life.\
I had to give something back.

### postscript
As a researcher working on blood donor health, it's important for me to understand how the evidence we gather can be applied to real-world practice. I don't believe that having donor experience is integral to my understanding of my field, because qualified researchers should have the chance to excel regardless of whether they fulfil blood service requirements. However, I enjoy these occasional forays "into the field" because I can generate new ideas about how we engage with our study participants and learn about how our research is perceived and/or operationalised by donation centres. 
