---
title: 'test blog'
date: 2024-14-01
permalink: /posts/2024/01/test-blog
tags:
  - week-in-the-life
---

This week
------
I worked repeatedly on my meta-analysis this week. I continued to extract summary data manually from published studies, which often proved tedious. I also wrote a few functions to pool estimates across multiple risk factors with greater efficiency. I split up the week with two or three days of deep work on methods write-ups, but those need refining to be more context-specific. On a related note: I'm a little infatuated with Microsoft Word's "Insert > Equation" feature right now.

Next week
------
I want to create a dummy structure for my meta-analysis results. I will do this by listing the tables and figures I will present for each of my research objectives. I hope to create those tables and figures by the end of the month for dissemination to my research group. I also want to become more intentional about building my knowledge base via organised note-taking, and I want to accelerate a long-term journey towards greater confidence in statistical methods and their motivations.

On the reading list
------
Drew P, Chatwin J, Collins S. Conversation analysis: a method for research into interactions between patients and health-care professionals. Health Expect. 2001 Mar;4(1):58-70. doi: 10.1046/j.1369-6513.2001.00125.x.

Outside the lab
------
I RSVP'd to some evening socials in the coming week and have been preparing things to take along to those. I also saw other Trinity Hall postgrads in hall for the first time since the Christmas vacation. That occasion was met with an Everest of sweet potato fries. 

About me
------
I'm Yaning (she/her), a PhD candidate in Public Health and Primary Care at the University of Cambridge. I am working with colleagues in the Blood and Transplant Research Unit, the Cardiovascular Epidemiology Unit, and NHS Blood and Transplant (England's national blood service) to improve the safety and efficiency of voluntary whole blood donation. I'm supervised by the amazing Dr Lois Kim and funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research. This is my blog about my journey through this candidature, starting from nine months before my transfer of status. Please feel free to reach out at ywu645 [at] cam [dot] ac [dot] uk!
