---
title: 'november 25, 2024: a week in the life'
date: 2024-11-30
permalink: /posts/2024/11/30-post
tags:
  - week-in-the-life
---

this week
------
I've spent the vast majority of this week breaking and un-breaking code for my simulation modelling project, which was well-aligned with a three-hour stint of TA-ing I took on this Friday for a practical in R coding. I also led a seminar for first-year medical students in appraising epidemiological literature, which I found even more fulfilling than my first try last week. Then, once again, I re-ran some code for my first primary analysis and continued to develop proposals for upcoming projects. Finally, I'm looking forward to presenting an idea for an international collaborative study in mid-December and am preparing slides!                     
                                                                                                                     
next week
------
I'll be 

outside the lab
------
Not much going on this week ... I am plowing th rough work, in and out of the office! But I did spend a fruitful evening calculating Erdős numbers with a mathematician friend. Thank goodness for random Wikipedia tangents ... 

on the reading list
------
Erikstrup C, Sørensen E, Nielsen KR, Bruun MT, Petersen MS, Rostgaard K, Thørner LW, Larsen M, Mikkelsen S, Dinh KM, Schwinn M, Rigas AS, Didriksen M, Dowsett J, von Stemann JH, Brodersen T, Paulsen IW, Hindhede L, Sækmose SG, Kaspersen KA, Boldsen JK, Kjerulff B, Werge T, Brunak S, Banasik K, Hansen TF, Ullum H, Hjalgrim H, Ostrowski SR, Pedersen OB. Cohort Profile: The Danish Blood Donor Study. Int J Epidemiol. 2023 Jun 6;52(3):e162-e171. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyac194. 

weekly photo
------
...

about me
------
I'm Yaning (she/her), a PhD candidate in Public Health and Primary Care at the University of Cambridge. I am working with colleagues in the Blood and Transplant Research Unit, the Cardiovascular Epidemiology Unit, and NHS Blood and Transplant (England's national blood service) to improve the safety and efficiency of voluntary whole blood donation. I'm supervised by the amazing Dr Lois Kim and funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research. This is my blog about my journey through this candidature, starting from nine months before my transfer of status. Please feel free to reach out at yw645 [at] cam [dot] ac [dot] uk!
